# Release History

## 1.0.0-beta.5 (2024-11-15)

This release fixes a bug related to upload method and few Engineering Systems updates.

### Features Added

### Breaking Changes

### Bugs Fixed

-Fixed a bug where the upload buffer and upload file methods were not awaited, which sometimes resulted in 404 errors in the web application.

### Other Changes

-Removed passing runName in wsEndpoint as its not required and can cause issue for cloud browser.

-Added X-MS-Package-Version header to cloud hosted browser API for language and package version decoding.

## 1.0.0-beta.4 (2024-10-21)

This release fixes some bugs, adds a feature to customize run name and improves error messaging.

### Features Added

- Added a runName field which allows customers to customize the display name when using the reporting feature.

### Bugs Fixed

- Fixed a bug where users were getting multiple entries for a test run in the dashboard for some cases.
- Fixed a bug where some optional fields in Playwright config were being treated as mandatory in service package.
- Fixed a bug where an error message was printing twice.

## 1.0.0-beta.3 (2024-09-16)

This release provides better error messaging and error handling by improving logging.

### Bugs Fixed

- Optimized test result publishing by reusing the Sas uri till it's expiry.
- Fixed unexpected process termination by improving error handling of API used to publish test results.

## 1.0.0-beta.2 (2024-09-12)

This release updates the Microsoft Playwright Testing library documentation and improves error messages.

### Bugs Fixed

- Improved handling of Entra ID token expiry so that test runs don't fail intermittently.
- Optimized retries if reporting API fails with 5xx error

## 1.0.0-beta.1 (2024-09-09)

### Features Added

- Added authentication using Entra ID for the service.
- Added reporting capabilities for the service. You can now publish the reports and artifacts generated by Playwright OSS to the service.
