What to do after generating the SDK code
===========================================================================

The generated code is not enough to release at once and you need to update it for better user experience. Please follow the steps to check the code:

# Build your project

After this finishes, you will see the generated code in `src` folder in your **{PROJECT_ROOT}**. Refer [the development workflows guide](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-js/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md#development-workflows) for more details if you'd like to know more.

```shell
pnpm install
pnpm build --filter=<your-package-name>...
```

# Generate CHANGELOG.md

Install `js-sdk-release-tools`
```
npm --prefix eng/tools/js-sdk-release-tools ci
```

After you build your package, run
```
npm --prefix eng/tools/js-sdk-release-tools exec --no -- changelog-tool <your-package-path>
```
Here is the example
```
npm --prefix eng/tools/js-sdk-release-tools exec --no -- changelog-tool sdk/advisor/arm-advisor
```

# Improve README.md document

A minimal README.md is generated by TypeScript emitter and you could improve README.md file per your service. To learn more about README, see below example README file.
- RLC example: [Maps Route README.md](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-js/blob/main/sdk/maps/maps-route-rest/README.md)
- DPG example: [OpenAI README.md](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-js/blob/main/sdk/openai/openai/README.md)

# How to write test for DPG/RLC/MPG

In order to release it, we need to add some tests for it to make sure we are delivering high quality packages. After generation you will see a `sampleTest.spec.ts` file in your `{PROJECT_ROOT}/test/public` folder, which has an empty test and you could add/update test cases against your own services.

See the [Javascript Codegen Quick Start for Test](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-js/blob/main/documentation/Quickstart-on-how-to-write-tests.md) for information on how to write and run tests for the Javascript SDK.

1. **Write the test**

    You could follow the [basic RLC test interaction and recording example](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-js/blob/main/documentation/Quickstart-on-how-to-write-tests.md#example-1-basic-rlc-test-interaction-and-recording-for-azure-data-plane-service) to write your test step by step.

    Also, you could refer to the below examples for more cases:
    - RLC example: [OpenAI Testing](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-js/tree/main/sdk/openai/openai/test/public)
    - DPG example: [Maps Route Testing](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-js/tree/main/sdk/maps/maps-route-rest/test/public)
    - MPG example: [Containerservice Fleet Testing](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-js/blob/main/sdk/containerservice/arm-containerservicefleet/test/public/)

2. **Run the test**

    Now, you can run the test like this. If you are the first time to run test, you need to set the environment variable `TEST_MODE` to `record`. This will generate recordings for your test they could be used in `playback` mode.

    On Linux, you could use `export` to set env variable:

    ```shell
    pnpm build --filter=${PACKAGE_NAME}...
    export TEST_MODE=record && pnpm test # this will run live test and generate a recordings folder, you will need to submit it in the PR.
    ```

    On Windows, you could use `SET`:

    ```shell
    pnpm build --filter=${PACKAGE_NAME}
    SET TEST_MODE=record&& pnpm test # this will run live test and generate a recordings folder, you will need to submit it in the PR.
    ```

    You can also run the `playback` mode test if your apis don't have breaking changes and you've already done the recording before.

    On Linux, you could use below commands:

    ```shell
      pnpm build --filter=${PACKAGE_NAME}
    export TEST_MODE=playback && pnpm test # this will run live test and generate a recordings folder, you will need to submit it in the PR.
    ```
    On Windows, you can use:

    ```shell
    pnpm build --filter=${PACKAGE_NAME}
    SET TEST_MODE=playback&& pnpm test # this will run live test and generate a recordings folder, you will need to submit it in the PR.
    ```

# How to write samples

We highly encourage you to write some valid samples for your customer to get start your service with libraries. You may author TypeScript samples under the `samples-dev` folder. For quick start, you can use [sample-dev template](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-js/tree/main/sdk/template/template/samples-dev) as reference and update the relevant information for your service such as package-name, sample code, description, etc.

To learn more, you could refer to the below samples:
- DPG sample: [the samples of OpenAIClient](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-js/tree/main/sdk/openai/openai/samples-dev)
- RLC sample: [the samples of MapsRouteClient](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-js/tree/main/sdk/maps/maps-route-rest/samples-dev)

After the `samples-dev` folder change is finished, you will need to change the `tsconfig.json` to make sure the dev samples can be compiled and build correctly.

You will need to add this part to the `compilerOptions` of your `tsconfig.json` file so that the Samples engine could resolve the `sample-dev` package against the source code of the SDK.

``` json
    "paths": { "@azure/agrifood-farming": ["./src/index"] }
```

And change the *"include"* part to

```json
  "include": ["./src/**/*.ts", "./test/**/*.ts", "samples-dev/**/*.ts"],
```

Then, we provide tools to automatically change it into workable samples in both TypeScript and JavaScript. And, you just need to add a `sampleConfiguration` in your `package.json`.

You will need to add a sample configuration section in your `package.json` file and put the following content into it.

```json
  "//sampleConfiguration": {
    "productName": "A description of your services",
    "productSlugs": ["azure"],
    "disableDocsMs": true,
    "apiRefLink": "<the-link-to-your-service-on-learn.microsoft.com>"
  }
```

Now, you can generate both JavaScript and TypeScript workable samples with the following commands.

```shell
npm install -g common/tools/dev-tool # make sure you are in the azure-sdk-for-js repo root directory
cd ${PROJECT_ROOT}
npx dev-tool samples publish -f
```
You will see the workable samples in the `${PROJECT_ROOT}/samples` folder.

# Format both the generated code and manual code

After you have finished the generation and added your own tests or samples, you can use the following command to format the code.

```shell
cd ${PROJECT_ROOT} && pnpm format
```

Also, we'll recommand you to run `lint` command to analyze your code and quickly find any problems.

```shell
cd ${PROJECT_ROOT} && pnpm lint
```

And we could use `lint:fix` if there are any errors.

```shell
cd ${PROJECT_ROOT} && pnpm lint:fix
```

# How to create package

Now, we can use the exact same steps to build a releasable artifact.

```shell
pnpm update
pnpm build --filter=<your-package-name>...
cd <your-sdk-folder>
export TEST_MODE=record && pnpm test
pnpm pack
```

You may send this artifact to your customer if your services are still in private preview and some customers want to try it out.

# Create/Update the ci.yaml

Now, if everything looks good to you, you can submit a PR in `azure-sdk-for-js` repo with all the changes you made above. Before you do that, you need to add/update the `ci.yml` file. Depends on whether there's already one in your package folder.

If there's no such file, then you can add the following template.

``` yaml
# NOTE: Please refer to https://aka.ms/azsdk/engsys/ci-yaml before editing this file.
trigger:
  branches:
    include:
      - main
      - release/*
      - hotfix/*
  paths:
    include:
      - sdk/purview/
pr:
  branches:
    include:
      - main
      - feature/*
      - release/*
      - hotfix/*
    exclude:
      - feature/v4
  paths:
    include:
      - sdk/purview/
extends:
  template: ../../eng/pipelines/templates/stages/archetype-sdk-client.yml
  parameters:
    ServiceDirectory: purview
    Artifacts:
      - name: azure-agrifood-farming # azure-agrifood-farming for DPG; azure-rest-agrifood-farming for RLC
        safeName: azureagrifoodfarming # azureagrifoodfarming for DPG; azurerestagrifoodfarming for RLC
```

Please change the `paths.include` value as your own project path, and change the Artifacts `name` and `safeName` into yours.

If there's already a `ci.yml` file in your project path, then the only thing you need to do is to add the Artifacts `name` and `safeName` of yours into that `ci.yml`.

Please notice the Artifacts `name` should align with your package name. Here, the package name is `@azure/agrifood-farming` so the relevant Artifacts name is `azure-agrifood-farming`.


# Prepare PR

TypeScript emitter can only help you generate SDK code, there is something you need to update manually.

## CHANGELOG.md

CHANGELOG can help customers know the change of new version quickly, so you need to update it according to the change of this new version. It is also necessary to update release date like `1.0.0-beta.1 (2022-11-11)` (rough time is fine and no need to be very accurate).

## Version Number

You shall update the version number according to [semantic versioning rule](https://semver.org/).

## Test recordings

After [writing and running test cases](#how-to-write-test-for-dpgrlc), you need to push the recordings to [assets repo](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-assets). Please refer to [push recording guide](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-js/blob/main/documentation/Quickstart-on-how-to-write-tests.md#how-to-push-test-recordings-to-assets-repo) to push recordings.

## Fix CI for PR

You may meet the CI failures after submitting the PR, so please refer to [Troubleshoot CI Failure](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-js/blob/main/documentation/Troubleshoot-ci-failure.md) to fix it.

## Resolve conflicts for PR

Latest changes to the main branch may introduce merge conflicts of `pnpm-lock.yaml` file to the PR, so please try to follow these steps to resolve conflicts:

1. checkout to main branch and pull the latest code
2. checkout the PR's branch
3. run `git merge main` 
4. run `git checkout origin/main pnpm-lock.yaml` 
5. run `pnpm install`
6. push your changes into your PR

If you meet other files' conflicts, you need to resolve them case by case.

## CC dpg-devs for review

Please add below comment in your PR to include `dpg-devs` to review your PR timely.

```
cc @Azure/dpg-devs for awareness
```

# Release

Prepare your SDK for release. The necessary approvals, guidance for testing, documentation, and release pipelines is described in your release plan. More information about the Azure SDK Release Tool is [here](https://eng.ms/docs/products/azure-developer-experience/plan/release-plan)
